Storyboard:
    Background: 
    "
     original idea for Thief's thief was to be posing as a government inspector, which gives the player supervised access to the vault.  From there they were supposed to figure out how to get rid of the banker and guards to search for loot.  I like this idea, but I'd prefer to leave the situation a little more free form - start the player in the antechamber and then give them some context: they came here hoping to steal the OmniNomicron, and Plan A is to present a counterfeit govt id to the head of the treasury in order to gain access to the vault.  But that's only Plan A -- other options include /distracting the guards and Fritzwick the accountant so they can sneak into a secret passage... but why would there be secret passages into the vault?  Maybe the fact that this is not realllly a treasury could explain that: maybe the Forgotten Gods or their devotees have bored a hole of some sort in the gods' prison, or perhaps the dwarves themselves are looking for someone curious, clever, and reckless enough to stumble upon their secret charges?

     Let's go with the Forsaken Cult approach: the player as the eponymous Thief was given a tip about a heist possibility on the famous dwarven treasury.  A group posing as crooked contractors has informed you that the dwarves hired them to replace some plumbing in the treasury cellars, and they used this privileged access along with a few bribed guards to drill a tunnel through the cellar ceiling into the vault floor.  Now that the construction work is done and suspicious tensions should be about normal again, they need a cat burglar to sneak into the cellars and up into the vault.  Said burglar would then retrieve ONLY a particular priceless first edition book, Nnamni's My God: The Paradox.  It'll be one of many such books inside, so it won't be easy for the Treasurer to notice it missing and the price it'll fetch with their buyer far outstrips the value of gems and gold one person could carry.  The Thief accepts this quest, and plans to steal the famed OmniNomicron instead; it may be harder to fence, but the Thief can use it as a weapon to turn on their co-conspirators so that they don't have to split the take.  Meanwhile, the contractors are actually cultists who have prepared their gods to intercept an unsuspecting human mind.  Said mind, unprepared for eldritch probing and lacking the dwarves' magic resistance, should be easy for them to ensnare.  With a pair of enthralled and skilled burglar hands inside the vault and little enough suspicion from the dwarves, the gods can effect their escape.
     ->first goal is to get into the vault and steal OmniNomicron instead of Nnamni's My God: The Paradox
     ->once inside, a new goal will suggest itself: finding and disabling wards throughout the treasury that will reveal a hidden door inside the vault.  A gift of blood freely given will open the door, leading to the Maw of Infinity.
     ->->The player will earn points along the way, and can bail at any time.  In this way, lacking the whole picture, they really do fall into the role of the grifter thief who is in fact the mark of a con within a con within a con.  
     ->->->Three main endings would be:
           1. Steal the requested book and be murdered by the cult 
           2. Steal the OmniNomicron and murder the cult 
           3. Follow the gods' direction and feast upon the sight of all that which lurks beyond the veil of our reality   
    "

Cosmic horror teases in the Tomb of Forgotten Gods:
1. Anarachnithyzarina: spider+octopus, spider-fied human face on one side and squid-ified human face on the other.  Something about multiple spinnerets from the beak and/or tentacles.  8 legs and 8 arms.  Beautiful puppet-woman over the spider-y head that is painfully animated when the creature needs some charisma.  
2. Pendulum Spirit: a corpse skewered by and crucified upon a jagged, roughly cross-shaped iron blade with a pendulum bob at its tip.  The pendulum swings in 3 dimensions, hunting living beings in the same room as the spirit and in the vicinity of its arc, and its bob has spiked extensions that scrape the ground to ensure no one can duck under it.

Powers:
1. Shapechange
2. Magic Rings
    2.1 Fire ring:
        Usage desc (as weapon, in vault): 
        "
        The _ ring on your _ turns painfully hot for a moment, and an imperious voice fills your mind, "How dare you command the likes of me, mortal?!  I shall burn, but for my pleasure."
        For an eternal instant searing agony shreds your reality as the _ ring flashes white hot.  Lazy tendrils of smoke and the stench of melted flesh wend their way casually up to your nostrils, and doubtless to those of the enemies surrounding you.  As the Vault swims back into focus, you realize you've been cradling your hand reflexively, and allow it to drop.
        "What-", the nearest guard begins to ask, but he's cut off by the deafening shriek of an alarm system. 
        "MAGIC HAS BEEN DETECTED WITHIN THE PERIMITER", a monotonous female voice announces. "ALL EXITS HAVE BEEN SEALED, AND SHALL REMAIN SEALED UNTIL THE PERPETRATOR HAS BEEN DEALT WITH.  PLEASE REMAIN CALM, CONTINUE WITH YOUR WORK, AND DO NOT MIND THE ARACHNULLS."
        Not good.  You've never heard of arachnulls, but the context would suggest they are spiders that combat, or perhaps feed upon, magic and wielders thereof.  Your more immediate problem, however, is the accusatory look leveled at you by the treasurer and guards.
        "Did you just use magic inside the treasury?"
        "I..."
        "
    2.2 Water ring:
        Usage desc (as escape tactic from vault after triggering magic alarm): 
        "
        "Sorry", a bubbly voice chirps in your head, "that's boring.  I've heard that dwarves like to feed intruders to the Forsaken Ones -- I wanna see a dead god!"
        "

Rooms:
    Grandiossuary:
        Desc: "Behold, ye grand hall... hundreds of harrassed-looking dwarven accountants sit at ornate mahagony desks, crunching numbers.  You note with some dismay that all the (effectively nailed-down) marble, mahagony, and gold in-lay must have reduced the size of the treasure hoard significantly.  'Folk are so selfish,' you think, 'why do they never consider us thieves before spreading their cash around?'"
    Vault:
        Items:
            1. Mahagony Bookcase
                Desc: "The comforting scent of old wood, old ink, and even older leather beckons you closer to the mahagony bookcase.  One of the guards eyes you warily, and the Treasurer chirrups "Look with your eyes, only, please!".  There are many famous titles here: Eldman's Annotated Apocrypha, Nnamni's My God: The Paradox, B. Ezda's Elder Strolls: An Extraplanar Excursion, and Edgar Lovecrust's feel-good travel log satire They're Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mountains, to name but a few.  From their patina, and the way the guard nearest you is purposefully sharpening his axe, you'd guess that they are all first editions -- quite possibly worth more than the entire heap of gold and jewels that dominate the landscape. Still soggy fishsticks compared to the OmniNomicron, though."
            2. Pedestal, atop which is a Puzzle Box containing the OmniNomicron
                Desc: "The North wall is dominated by a massive pedestal atop which rests a dwarven puzzle box.  You've heard scary things about these contraptions, but their rarity suggests that the item within is of mouth-watering value."
            3. Puzzle Box
                Desc: "A closer look through the transparent puzzle box confirms your supposition -- here rests the coveted OmniNomicron, prized atlas and encyclopedia of Dwarven culinary science.  Also, maybe, in the wrong (right?) hands, an unstoppable killing machine."
            4. OmniNomicron
                Desc: "The glorious OmniNomicron is hailed as the definitive guide to the unrivaled realm of Dwarven culinary science.  This alone would make it prized, but its mysterious magic is what makes it priceless: officially no one knows for sure how said magic can be released or what it can accomplish, but it is rumored to contain the secret to performing ___<some kinda culinary pun equivalent to transmogriphication, maybe using our old friend 'nom' again>, the process by which a given lifeform is metamorphosed into a bite-sized edible confection that fully replicates the poor creature's character in a cornucopia of gastronomic brilliance.  Ever found someone so sweet you kinda wanted to be able to taste their awesomeness?  With the OmniNomicron, you literally could.  Anyway, its presence here under puzzle-lock and guard at the heart of the Dwarven treasury vault suggests that the rumors may be credible.  As he taps his foot ostentaciously behind you, you wonder idly what sort of fancy foul-smelling cheese spread the fussy Treasurer would become."
            5. The Hoard
                Desc: "A pile of gold and jewels so bright that you can't look directly at it without pain.  What a sweet, sweet pain it is."

Puzzles:
Rainbow Coil: a buzzing coil stretches around the vault's perimiter, afixed to the ceiling.
    Purpose: 
    The Rainbow Coil acts like an immaterial Farraday Cage against magical radiation: its colors are normally outside the spectrum of human visible light, though dwarves can make them out vaguely, and these extremely long or short wavelengths are specifically calculated to interfere with and zero-out waves of magic energy.  This keeps the Forgotten Gods from reaching out beyond the bounds of their tomb, and also prevents the use of magic within the vault.     
    Details:
    -If the Oddly Empty Section of Wall has Glittering Purple light cast upon it in concert with Aquamarine of the Abyss, the passage enchantment is no longer zeroed out.  This allows passage North into the Maw of Infinity.
    ...  
    Exploits: 
    There are gems within the vault that can bend the light from the coil, moving it into the visible spectrum and making it possible for certain wavelengths of magic to permeate the field.  At first, this will allow the gods to advise and entice the player, recommending actions to be taken with the wards from the Warden's chamber to further disrupt the coil and eventually reveal the secret passage between the vault and the Maw of Infinity, an enchanment itself that teleports the solid rock of Godspeak mountain to an extradimensional space and allows passage; with the coil active in the vicinity of this passage, beside the Pedestal against the North wall of the Vault, the enchantment is suppressed.
       